---
layout: post
title: Irony?
created: 1128723600
categories:
- identity
---
Irony? I think NOT.

Fasting for Navratri continues. Yesterday was proly the hardest day of the whole nine days. First, because the first few days are always harder--once you get used to fasting, it becomes less of a big deal. But also, because usually we eat one meal a day, a home-cooked meal for dinner after performing a puja. But on the second day, we restrict our diet to only liquids—juice, milk, and water—and we don’t eat a meal at all on that day. So yesterday was the third day, and after work I had the play, so by the time the the play was over, hell by the time it STARTED, I was ready to go home and EAT. Lol, crazy. The next 5 or 6 days should be all good though.

And what’s up? Why are people so quick to criticize others? People I work with know that I’m fasting right now, it's all good. But I was talking to the old guy in our department and he was asking me about my fasting. I was explaining how we do it--friuts and nuts during the day and one meal at night--and he snapped back saying ‘oh, that’s not really fasting.’ Uh, hello? He started eluding to his co-workers who used to fast for Ramadan when he worked for an oil rig in Saudi Arabia, but I quickly cut him off and asked him ‘why don’t you tell me what rules YOU observe when YOU fast, and I’ll try following those.’ Not listening to what I was asking, he tried to go on about stories he was sparsely connected with before I asked him again ‘why don’t you tell me what rules YOU observe when YOU fast, and I’ll try following those.’ After hearing what I said this time around, he answered ‘oh, I don’t fast.’ ‘Well then stop being so critical about those who do.’ Followed by conversation about other things. Lol, I felt pretty good about myself.

