---
layout: post
title: It's on
created: 1107200040
categories:
- what i'm listening to right now
- spirituality
---
Check this. This is a prayer I’ve been getting into the habit of saying, and I looked up what it means:

<blockquote>
    Karpur gauram karunaa avataaram,
    Sansaar saaram bhujgendra haaram,
    Sadaa vasantam hridayaarvinde,
    Bhavam Bhavaani sahitam namaami

    I bow to the camphor-hued, white complexioned one (Lord Shiva),
    who is the Incarnation of compassion,
    Who is the very essence of life;
    Who wears snakes as garlands,
    whose eternal abode is in the heart of the devotee,
    I bow to Him (Lord Shiva) and His consort Bhavaani (Parvati)
</blockquote>

I read that, and something just struck a chord with me. Maybe it's what I’ve been praying for lately, or maybe it's that I’ve been thinking about God a lot lately, or maybe it's me getting more in the habit of whole-heartedly praying when I do, moreso than I have been over the past year or so. But that prayer’s beauty right there. How come when I’m thinking of ways to praise things, be it God or even my friends, I can never think of ways to express myself like that prayer does? I guess that’s why I play an instrument and I’m not a singer, words and language aren’t my strong point. Its all Microsoft Word’s fault, too, but I’ll leave that little rant-to-be for another post.

This weekend was pretty cool. Friday, checked out the Funkadesi show for a tsunami benefit. Good show, but the place was PAAAAAACKED. Everyone there was saying ‘oh, its always like this.’ But seriously, I could barely move. I was chillin with Ruby after the show, and we were talking to this girl that was talking about how she’s “an amazing bhangra dancer,” and I “should never dare compete with her.” Uh, hello? Did she know who she was talking to? I’m all about the love of the dance, so I was trying to take the whole competitive aspect out of the conversation, but she just kept going on and on about how I “had no idea”. I very well may not have any idea, but dude... I kept my mouth shut, cause I’m not all about touting my skills until it's time to actually use them. The only things I really said to her was she was talking awfully tall to someone she didn’t know very well, and she’d better sloooooow down... When I do see her in a circle sometime, my actions will speak much louder than my words ever could, so we’ll have to wait and see. In the immortal words of Dhrubajyoti: It's fucking on.

What I’m listening to right now:
<blockquote>
    [Social Distortion—White Light, White Heat, White Trash](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002A69/nikhiltrivedi-20) —I was never a HUGE Social D fan when they were big, I think this is the only album of theirs that I own. I think before this album came out in 96, they had already taken a hiatus for like four years to do a few various solo albums, and this was their big ‘we’re back together’ album. There’s a handful of good songs on this album, but as a whole it's nothing to write home about. The opening track ‘Dear Lover’ ROCKS, and the hidden tracks is a cover Rolling Stone’s ‘Under My Thumb,’ while also ROCKS. Everything in between is decent rock/punkish with some Bad Religion sounding nuances. It's not bad.
</blockquote>
